Collection
==========

Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum is committed to making its collection data available for public access. To date we have made public approximately 75% of the documented [collection](http://collection.cooperhewitt.org) available online. Whilst we have a web interface for searching the collection, we are now also making the dataset available for free public download. By being able to see 'everything' at once, new connections and understandings may be able to be made. For more information please see our [website](http://collection.cooperhewitt.org/developers).

Instructions
============
Please follow the instructions on our [wiki](https://github.com/cooperhewitt/collection/wiki)

Usage Guidelines
================
Are there any restrictions?

In order to reduce any uncertainty about the 'legitimate uses' of this dataset, Cooper Hewitt has licensed this release under a Creative Commons Zero (CC0) license. This license is the most permissive available and allows for all types of reuse. It is explained in full in the accompanying license file.

Following the lead of Europeana, we have also released some guidelines for use which suggest that users:

* Give attribution to Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum.
* Contribute back any modifications or improvements.
* Do not mislead others or misrepresent the Metadata or its sources.
* Be responsible.
* Understand that they use the data at their own risk.

*Please be aware that images are not included. While we have provided a way to reference the images connected to the records, these images themselves are not part of the dataset being released and are not covered by the same license.*

Please see our [wiki](https://github.com/cooperhewitt/collection/wiki/Date-Usage-Guidelines) for detailed usage guidelines. 

Collections items as JSON files
============

This departments, exhibitions, objects, people, periods, roles and types folders
contain Cooper Hewitt collection data exported as individual
[JSON](http://www.json.org/) files.

File names and parent directory structures are generated using the unique ID of
the object itself. For example the full path for [iRobot's Roomba vacuum
cleaner](http://collection.cooperhewitt.org/objects/18704235/) (ID #18704235)
is: [objects/187/042/35/18704235.json](blob/master/objects/187/042/35/18704235.json)

Paths are generated by chopping numeric identifiers in to groups of three (or
less) starting front to back. A reference implementation can be found in the
[utils.py](blob/master/bin/utils.py) library.

Objects as JSON files (in Git(Hub))
============

It should be noted that the performance of Git (and GitHub) when dealing with
very large repositories is still less than ideal. It appears to be a problem
inherent to Git and its indexing processes.

Which is to say: Everything still works but it can be slow. In practice this has
the side-effect of making some features of GitHub, like pull requests, nearly
impossible because the web application is configured to time out before indexing
(of a very large repository) has completed.

There is a good thread about the problem and some potential solutions over here:

http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/189776

Licensing
=========

# Creative Commons Legal Code

## CC0 1.0 Universal

    CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE
    LEGAL SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS DOCUMENT DOES NOT CREATE AN
    ATTORNEY-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS
    INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS.  CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO
    WARRANTIES REGARDING THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR
    WORKS PROVIDED HEREUNDER, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES
    RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS
    PROVIDED HEREUNDER.

## Statement of Purpose

The laws of most jurisdictions throughout the world automatically confer
exclusive Copyright and Related Rights (defined below) upon the creator and
subsequent owner(s) (each and all, an "owner") of an original work of authorship
and/or a database (each, a "Work").

Certain owners wish to permanently relinquish those rights to a Work for the
purpose of contributing to a commons of creative, cultural and scientific works
("Commons") that the public can reliably and without fear of later claims of
infringement build upon, modify, incorporate in other works, reuse and
redistribute as freely as possible in any form whatsoever and for any purposes,
including without limitation commercial purposes. These owners may contribute to
the Commons to promote the ideal of a free culture and the further production of
creative, cultural and scientific works, or to gain reputation or greater
distribution for their Work in part through the use and efforts of others.

For these and/or other purposes and motivations, and without any expectation of
additional consideration or compensation, the person associating CC0 with a Work
(the "Affirmer"), to the extent that he or she is an owner of Copyright and
Related Rights in the Work, voluntarily elects to apply CC0 to the Work and
publicly distribute the Work under its terms, with knowledge of his or her
Copyright and Related Rights in the Work and the meaning and intended legal
effect of CC0 on those rights.

1. Copyright and Related Rights.

A Work made available under CC0 may be protected by copyright and related or
neighboring rights ("Copyright and Related Rights").  Copyright and Related
Rights include, but are not limited to, the following:

*   the right to reproduce, adapt, distribute, perform, display,
    communicate, and translate a Work;

*   moral rights retained by the original author(s) and/or performer(s);

*   publicity and privacy rights pertaining to a person's image or likeness
    depicted in a Work;

*   rights protecting against unfair competition in regards to a Work,
    subject to the limitations in paragraph 4(a), below;

*   rights protecting the extraction, dissemination, use and reuse of data
    in a Work;

*   database rights (such as those arising under Directive 96/9/EC of the
    European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal
    protection of databases, and under any national implementation thereof,
    including any amended or successor version of such directive); and

*   other similar, equivalent or corresponding rights throughout the world
    based on applicable law or treaty, and any national implementations
    thereof.

2. Waiver.

To the greatest extent permitted by, but not in contravention of,
applicable law, Affirmer hereby overtly, fully, permanently, irrevocably
and unconditionally waives, abandons, and surrenders all of Affirmer's
Copyright and Related Rights and associated claims and causes of action,
whether now known or unknown (including existing as well as future claims
and causes of action), in the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii)
for the maximum duration provided by applicable law or treaty (including
future time extensions), (iii) in any current or future medium and for any
number of copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever, including without
limitation commercial, advertising or promotional purposes (the "Waiver").
Affirmer makes the Waiver for the benefit of each member of the public at
large and to the detriment of Affirmer's heirs and successors, fully
intending that such Waiver shall not be subject to revocation, rescission,
cancellation, termination, or any other legal or equitable action to
disrupt the quiet enjoyment of the Work by the public as contemplated by
Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

3. Public License Fallback.

Should any part of the Waiver for any reason be judged legally invalid or
ineffective under applicable law, then the Waiver shall be preserved to the
maximum extent permitted taking into account Affirmer's express Statement
of Purpose. In addition, to the extent the Waiver is so judged Affirmer
hereby grants to each affected person a royalty-free, non transferable, non
sublicensable, non exclusive, irrevocable and unconditional license to
exercise Affirmer's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work (i) in all
territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum duration provided by applicable
law or treaty (including future time extensions), (iii) in any current or
future medium and for any number of copies, and (iv) for any purpose
whatsoever, including without limitation commercial, advertising or
promotional purposes (the "License"). The License shall be deemed effective
as of the date CC0 was applied by Affirmer to the Work. Should any part of
the License for any reason be judged legally invalid or ineffective under
applicable law, such partial invalidity or ineffectiveness shall not
invalidate the remainder of the License, and in such case Affirmer hereby
affirms that he or she will not (i) exercise any of his or her remaining
Copyright and Related Rights in the Work or (ii) assert any associated
claims and causes of action with respect to the Work, in either case
contrary to Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

4. Limitations and Disclaimers.

*  No trademark or patent rights held by Affirmer are waived, abandoned,
    surrendered, licensed or otherwise affected by this document.

*  Affirmer offers the Work as-is and makes no representations or
    warranties of any kind concerning the Work, express, implied, statutory
    or otherwise, including without limitation warranties of title,
    merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non infringement, or
    the absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the present or
    absence of errors, whether or not discoverable, all to the greatest
    extent permissible under applicable law.

*  Affirmer disclaims responsibility for clearing rights of other persons
    that may apply to the Work or any use thereof, including without
    limitation any person's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work.
    Further, Affirmer disclaims responsibility for obtaining any necessary
    consents, permissions or other rights required for any use of the Work.

*  Affirmer understands and acknowledges that Creative Commons is not a
    party to this document and has no duty or obligation with respect to
    this CC0 or use of the Work.
